Perception (#875)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/_drafts/perception-toolkit/index.md

---
title: Visual searching with the Perception Toolkit
subhead: Real-world interactivity without learning artificial intelligence
author: joemedley
date: 2019-05-07
hero: hero.jpg
# You can adjust the position of your hero image with this property.
# Values: top | bottom | center (default)
# hero_position: bottom
alt: A description of the hero image for screen reader users.
description: |
  Wouldn't it be great if users could search your site using their camera?
tags:

>   - visual-search

Author: It literally is visual search. I'm also not sure what you mean by too narrow. Keyword indexes are narrow by definition. That's the point of a keyword index.

present the right information in a customizable UI.

I'll show you enough of this to give you a taste of how it works. For a complete
explanation, check out the Getting Started Guide, the toolkit reference, and the
demos.

## Customize the user experience

Getting UI elements is amazingly simple. The toolkit gives you livecycle events,
Card and Button objects for crafting the user experience around those events,
and an easy way to style the cards.

The most important lifecycle event is MarkerChanges, which is called every time
a marker is found. A marker is the toolkit's term for one of the real-world
objects you're using the toolkit to look for. A marker can be a physical object,
an image, a barcode, or a QR code.

The process for responding to the event is the same as for any other event.

```js
const container = document.querySelector('.container');
async function onMarkerChanges(event) {
  // Process the event.
}
window.addEventListener(PerceptionToolkit.Events.MarkerChanges, onMarkerChanges);
```

Let's look at the event more closely. The event itself contains arrays of
markers it's both found and lost. This helps account for hand and marker

> movements: cameras not help steadily enough, dropped markers, that kind of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
movements: cameras not help steadily enough, dropped markers, that kind of
```
```suggestion
movements: cameras not held steadily enough, dropped markers, that kind of
```

> thing. As long as the toolkit finds the marker at some point, it will be in

Reviewer: "As long as the toolkit finds the marker at some point, it will be in
either array."

I read this sentence a few times but wasn't sure what I was meant to take away from it. It may be self evident based on the previous sentences that something will go from the found to the lost arrays.

either array.

```js
async function onMarkerChanges(event) {

>   event.preventDefault();

Reviewer: What is `preventDefault()` used for in this scenario?

>   if (container. childNodes.length > 0) { return; }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if (container.childNodes.length > 0) { return; }
```

  const { found, lost } = event.detail;
  // Deal with lost and found objects.
}
```

Next, we show an appropriate card based on what the toolkit found. Notice the
conveniences I've added to the user experience. Whether the marker is found or
not, I provide one-click access to what I think is most useful in the
circumstances.

```js
async function onMarkerChanges(event) {

>   event.preventDefault();

Reviewer: Similar to above. Wanted to note the use of `preventDefault()` in case we can remove it.

>   if (container. childNodes.length > 0) { return; }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if (container.childNodes.length > 0) { return; }
```

  const { found, lost } = event.detail;
  const { Card } = PerceptionToolkit.Elements;
  if (found.length === 0 && lost.length === 0) {
    const card = new Card();
    card.src = 'We wish we could help, but that\'s not our razor. Would you like to see <a href="/catalog">our catalog</a>?';

>     card.dataset.notRecognized = true;

Reviewer: Maybe comment above this line explaining what `dataset.notRecognized` does.

    container.appendChild(card);
  } else if (found.length > 0 || lost.length > 0) {
    const card = new Card();
    card.src = found[0].content || lost[0].content;
    // The ActionButton object is also part of the toolkit.

>     // Its instantiation is not shown.

Reviewer: hm why not?

>     carc.appendChild(reorderActionButton);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    card.appendChild(reorderActionButton);
```

Reviewer: This seems a bit weird because `reorderActionButton` is omitted from the example so it's unclear what it does. If it's possible to show it or provide some explanation that may help. The sentence preceding this example states "Whether the marker is found or not, I provide one-click access to what I think is most useful in the circumstances." but then sort of omits what seems like the most important part.

    container.appendChild(card);
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: The end of this snippet seems like a sweet spot for an example image or gif of the experience running.

> Perception toolkit provides a built-in formatting for cards and buttons with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perception toolkit provides built-in formatting for cards and buttons with the
```

default stylesheet. But you can easily add your own. The provided `Card` and

> `ActionButton` object's contain `style` properties (among many others) that you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ActionButton` objects contain `style` properties (among many others) that you
```

Reviewer: I wonder if it might be useful to have a section preceding this one which explains the `Card` and `ActionButton` APIs and links to their explainers.

can use to put your organizational stamp on the look and feel. To include the

> default stylesheet, add a link element to the pages that need it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
default stylesheet, add a `<link>` element to the pages that need it.
```

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="//path/to/toolkit/styles/perception-toolkit.css">
```

## Match structured data

The toolkit can't find just any object in the real world. You must provide it

> with linked JSON data for the markers you want it to recognize. This data also

Reviewer: Do you have a link for the schema folks should use?

Author: It hasn't been released yet. They have deliberately told me not to include it.

contains information about those markers that will be shown to the user.

> Anything you add to a display card with card.src (see above) will be in addition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anything you add to a display card with `card.src` (see above) will be in addition
```

to what's provided by the linked data.

This data itself can either be in an external file or in the application page.

> Both cases use a <script> tag. If you're new to linked data, notice the mime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both cases use a `<script>` tag. Note that it takes a MIME type of
`application/ld+json`.
```

type.

```html
<script type="application/ld+json" src="//path/to/your/sitemap.jsonld">
```

Or

```js
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
  "@context": "https://schema.googleapis.com/",
  "@type": "ARArtifact",
  "arTarget": {
    "@type": "Barcode",
    "text": "Inline Barcode"
  },
  "arContent": {
    "@type": "WebPage",
    "url": "http://example.com/item.html",
    "name": "Item name",
    "description": "A short description explaining a little more about the item.",
    "image": "http://example.com/images/item-image.jpg"
  }
}
</script>
```

## Conclusion

> As I said at the top, this is not an exhaustive look at the Perception Toolkit.

Reviewer: Maybe this could be rephrased as:

"While this is not an exhaustive look at the Perception Toolkit, it hopefully gives you a sense of how easy it is to add visual searching to a web site. If you'd like to learn more check out the Getting Started guide and the demo. When you're ready, take a deeper dive into the Toolkit reference documentation to understand all that it can do."
